h1. flickr-unsucky

I wanted to be able to view my own Flickr photos in a more user-friendly and intuitive way.  The new 2010 Flickr interface is a massive improvement over the old one, but still is a pain for me to navigate.  This is a Sinatra app (Ruby) that solves these problems for me:

* View EXIF data that is interesting to photographers: camera model, shutter speed, aperture speed, focal length, ISO
* Large thumbnail browsing.  I took the default-sized single-photo-view on Flickr and made it the thumbnail when you view things in /photoset-big/*
* Large full-size viewing by default.  1024 version shows up by default in /photo/*
* Large photo links to original size

There are many things you could tailor this app to be.  Out of the box it works well as a personalized gallery for your Flickr account. 

h2. Demo

"http://jesseflickr.heroku.com/":http://jesseflickr.heroku.com/

h2. Install and Run

* git clone git://github.com/ioda006/flickr-unsucky.git
* @sudo gem install sinatra haml flickraw@ (make sure you get 0.8.3 and not 0.8.2 of flickraw.  Do @gem list --local | grep flickraw@ to find out)
* get a "Flickr API key":http://www.flickr.com/services/api/misc.api_keys.html

Two ways to run:

* put your API key and userid (find it here: "idgettr.com":http://idgettr.com/) in config.rb and then run your server as normal from the commandline.  Example: @ruby application.rb@
* run with your server with environment variables.  Example: @FLICKR_API_KEY=yourapikey FLICKR_USER_ID=youruserid shotgun -sthin -p4567 --host=0.0.0.0@

I like to use shotgun because it allows for easier reloading of code.


h2. Deploying your app

To deploy using Heroku:
* Start at step 3, stop after step 4: "http://docs.heroku.com/quickstart":http://docs.heroku.com/quickstart (I suggest you actually name your app in step 3.. ex: heroku create jesseflickr)
* heroku config:add FLICKR_API_KEY=yourapikey
* heroku config:add FLICKR_USER_ID=youruserid 
* go to yourappsname.heroku.com

h2.  Todo

* Navigating while at a photo view page is non-existent currently.  Would love to have a large 10+ thumbnail strip (5 in each direction) to browse or something.
* Something having to do with location that the photo was taken
* DRYer code.
* Note the number of favorites and comments next to "View this photo on Flickr" since that's probably the main reason to see it there.

h2. Credits

This project is based on "RichGuk's flickraw-example":http://github.com/RichGuk/flickraw-example and uses "flickraw":http://github.com/hanklords/flickraw
